Взгляд с балкона

♫2105258304

С балкона приятно смотреть: марширует строем  
  толпа верноподданных, шаг пропечатан звонко.  
Шара́шит радостно, будто не под конвоем  
  пройдут, — а потом домой в свой барак на шконку.  
Балкон высокий и ракурс придаст величие  
  даже шуту́ в трико субтильному и хромому.  
Так еще Зевс высматривал вскользь добычу,  
  держа два пальца на козырьке… 

По иному уже не будет в этих моих широтах.  
  В контражур прищурясь — что в высоте увидишь?  
Особенно если вокруг — как рижские шпроты —  
  плечи таких же бродяг и негромкий идиш.

С балкона — море толпы неделимо на лица,  
  на силуэты и даже на части тела.  
Ущипнешь себя незаметно — и нет, не снится,  
  это все наяву, как, наверно, судьба хотела.  
То тут, то там — а равненье вперед на знамя! —  
  кто-то упал на колени иссякли силы.  
Толпа в мостовую втоптала их прохорями,  
  как будто бы сноп пшеницы серпо́м скосило.  
Внизу проползают буднично все́ народы,  
  ждущие милости в праздник с балкона свыше.  
Здесь нет погоды и, соответственно, непогоды.  
  Раскаленный воздух —  в пустыне — дотла́ выжжен.  

С балкона смотрится всё немного иначе,  
  чем из окна трамвая, когда ладошкой  
протаивал изморозь, чтоб видеть мир — а значит —  
  видеть себя в мире сквозь это окошко.  
Ты вспоминаешь детство, в нелепой ушанке,  
  в пальтишке залатанном бабушкой на скорую руку.  
На балконе жарко и тебе вряд ли станет жалко  
  того мальчишку из нерукопожатного круга.  

С балкона приятно смотреть, как марширует стадо.  
  Военные, иждиве́нцы, слу́жащие, шагов стаккато.

И даже стоять на балконе уже не надо.  
  Можно прилечь, а эти — ну пусть их идут к закату.

---

Loggia delle Benedizioni

♫2105235633

From the balcony, it’s pleasant to view: marching in line  
A crowd of loyalists, their steps resounding clear.  
They march with joy, as if not under guard they’ll shine,  
But home to their barracks and bunks they’ll soon veer.  
The balcony’s high, and the angle lends majesty  
Even to a jester in tights, frail and lame.  
Thus Zeus once glanced, seeking prey with brevity,  
Two fingers to his visor…

I wouldn’t blame,  
And I wouldn’t make the latitudes scroll.  
Squinting into the backlight—what can you see on high?  
Especially when around you—like sardines—wall-to-wall—  
Are shoulders of fellow wanderers and quiet Yiddish sigh.  

From the balcony—the sea of crowd, faceless and whole,  
No silhouettes or even body parts discerned.  
You pinch yourself discreetly—no, it’s not a stroll  
Through dreams, but reality, as fate has turned.  
Here and there—eyes front, toward the banner!—  
Someone falls to their knees, strength depleted.  
The crowd tramples them with boots, in this manner,  
As if a sheaf of wheat by sickle was defeated.

Below, all peoples crawl by in mundane procession,  
Awaiting mercy from the balcony above on this fête.  
Here there’s no weather, and thus, no weather’s transgression.  
Scorching air—in the desert—burned to completion’s state.

From the balcony, everything looks a bit strange,  
Unlike from a tram window, when with your palm  
You’d melt the frost to see the world—and thus arrange—  
To see yourself in it through that small aperture’s calm.  
You recall childhood, in a silly ear-flapped hat,  
In a coat hastily patched by grandma’s care.  
On the balcony it’s hot, and you’ll scarcely feel bad  
For that boy from circles where handshakes were rare.

From the balcony, it’s pleasant to watch the herd march past.  
Soldiers, dependents, civil servants, steps staccato.  
And you needn’t even stand, the balcony is so vast,  
You can lie down, after drinking your conium maculatum.
