Игра за чужую команду

♫2105258313

Если есть вопросы — то ты не с нами,  
взгляд вперед надёжней стрельбы глазами.  
На флагштоке трепещет то самое знамя  
  на которое нужно равняться!  
Специалист по печати шага —  
нужнее студентиков из общаги.  
Образование, Верещагин, —  
  не поможет в драке на танцах.

Если есть вопросы — сглотни слюною,  
хочешь выжить — запомни: в бою не ноют.  
Почитай брошюру, примкни к конвою,  
  ожидай звезду на погоны.  
Заступая на вахту — проверь оружье.  
Три глотка из фляги — один из лужи.  
Затяни портупе́ю еще потуже —  
  поумерь неуместный гонор.

Если есть вопросы — есть на них ответы.  
На доказательства нынче вето.  
Аксиоматика кроет где-то  
  три четверти общих знаний.  
Постулаты и догмы на смену леммам.  
О чем-то таком есть роман у Лема.  
Силлогизм заменил почти все дилеммы,  
  10 заповедей, — а дальше сами.

Если есть вопросы — видна лакуна  
в подходах Хи́нтона и Лекуна.  
Информация слаще рахат-лукума:  
  не съесть больше пары граммов.  
Как раба по капле в себе давили  
на последнем отрезке последней мили,  
данных по первому процентилю  
  хватит для диаграммы.

Если есть вопросы — спроси у бота,  
говорят, скоро нас всех попрут с работы,  
потому что искусственным биормо́там  
  не нужно платить зарплату.  
Методичка рождает пять методичек.  
Так работает цепь неслучайных смычек.  
Откажись, пора, от своих привычек.  
  Тут не комната, тут — палата.

Если есть вопросы — то ты не с ними,  
документалку нетфликс не снимет,  
как в Монреале, Стокгольме, Риме,  
  идеи несли на плаху.  
Если есть вопросы — заткнись, и слушай.  
Это аист вьётся, а во́рон — кру́жит.  
Информации столько, что вряд ли нужно  
  рвать на груди рубаху.

---

Playing for Another Team

♫2105235624

If you have questions—you’re not with us,  
Eyes forward’s better than darting, thus.  
On the flagpole flutters that very ensign  
To which we must all align!  
A specialist in marching step  
Is worth more than dorm students’ pep.  
Education, you Einstein, won’t ever help  
In a dance floor brawl’s design.

If you have questions—swallow your spit,  
To survive—remember: in battle, don’t quit.  
Read the brochure, join the convoy, commit,  
Await stars on your shoulder.  
When taking watch—check your gun.  
Three sips from flask—one from puddle’s run.  
Tighten your belt even more, son—  
Curb that misplaced bravado.

If you have questions—answers are there.  
Proofs are vetoed, so beware.  
Axiomatics covers somewhere  
Three-quarters of common knowledge.  
Postulates and dogmas replace lemmas now.  
Lem wrote a novel about this, somehow.  
Syllogism replaced dilemmas, allow  
10 commandments,—then use your own college.

If you have questions—a gap is seen  
In Hinton’s and LeCun’s routine.  
Information’s sweeter than Turkish delight’s sheen:  
Can’t chew more than a couple of gums.  
How we crushed the slave drop by drop  
On the last stretch of the final hop,  
Data from the first percentile’s crop  
Suffices for diagrams.

If you have questions—ask a bot,  
They say we’ll all soon lose our slot,  
Because artificial bior’bots  
Don’t need a salary paid.  
One manual breeds five more.  
That’s how chains of links explore.  
It’s time to quit your habits’ lore.  
This ain’t a room, it’s a ward, I’m afraid.

If you have questions—you’re not with them,  
Netflix won’t film a documentary gem,  
How in Montreal, Stockholm, Rome’s stem,  
Ideas were brought to the stake.  
If you have questions—shut up and hear.  
It’s a stork that soars, a raven circles near.  
There’s so much info, it’s not clear  
Why you’d tear your shirt for its sake.
