Пенсия

♫2339851265

Арена помнит каждый мой прыжок,  
свист, рёв трибун, летящий в закоулки.  
Я — ветеран. Я сотню раз берег  
свою судьбу под этим небом гулким.  
Мой черный бок отмечен серебром,  
и шрамы — как почетные медали.  
Мы с матадором знали об одном:  
вне этой площади мы жить смогли б едва ли.

Он был мне братом в яростном кругу,  
мы ткали танец шпагой на капо́те.  
Я уступал, как другу, не врагу,  
на самом тонком, благородном взлете.  
Тот пикадор, что метил мне в плечо,  
мне из таверны приносил риоху…  
Мы были частью мифа. Горячо  
бурлила кровь, вскипая с каждым вздохом.

Но замолчал призывный медный рог.  
Пришел закон. Гуманный и холодный.  
Я заперт. Весь мой яростный восторг  
загнали в стойло, сытый и свободный.  
Трава сочна́, прозрачна в речке высь,  
но эта тишина мне режет уши.  
Зачем они спасти меня клялись,  
Когда они мою убили душу?

Мне снится пыль и крики «О́ле!», свист,  
да матадора ласковая шпага…  
Я — старый бык. Мой луг весенний чист,  
а в лужах, как в глазах,  — застыла влага.  
Мы заперты — и человек, и зверь,  
Лишенные великого финала.

Всходило солнце над ареной: верь! —  
и падало за горизонт устало.

---

The arena remembers every leap I made,  
The roar of crowds that filled the dusty space.  
A veteran, a hundred times I’ve played  
With my own fate in this resounding place.  
My jet-black flank is marked with silver scars,  
Like medals won in long-forgotten fights.  
The matador and I, beneath the stars,  
Knew that we couldn’t live outside these lights.

He was my brother in the raging ring,  
We wove a dance with cape and flashing blade.  
I yielded as a friend, a noble thing,  
Upon the highest, finest step we made.  
The picador who aimed at my sore back,  
Would bring Rioja from the tavern door...  
We were a myth. The blood along our track  
Boiled hot with every breath and every roar.

But now the calling copper horn is still.  
A law has come, so merciful and cold.  
And I am locked. My fierce and burning will  
Is stalled and fed, a freedom bought and sold.  
The grass is lush, the river's flow is clear,  
But all this silence hurts my heavy ears.  
Why did they swear to save my life out here,  
When they have killed my soul and left me tears?

I dream of dust, of shouts of “Óle!”, cries,  
And of the matador’s most gentle steel...  
I am an old bull. Clean the meadow lies,  
But in this cleanliness, a damp I feel.  
We both are locked away—the man, the beast,  
Denied the grand finale of the past.

The sun arose above the ring, at least,  
And sank behind the line, fatigued at last.

---

La arena aún recuerda mi saltar,  
el grito del tendido en su clamor.  
Soy veterano, un siglo vi pasar  
salvando mi destino con honor.  
Mi flanco negro brilla en plata y sal,  
mis cicatrices medallas son de ley.  
Sabíamos muy bien, hasta el final,  
que fuera de la plaza no hay un rey.

Él era mi hermano en el redondel,  
tejiendo el baile en capa y con espada.  
Cedía yo ante un amigo fiel,  
en la más alta y noble encrucijada.  
Aquel gran picador que me hirió ayer,  
traía de la tasca mi rioja...  
Fuimos un mito. El fuego del ayer  
hervía en cada aliento que deshoja.

Mas ya calló el clarín de mi esplendor.  
Llegó la ley, humana pero fría.  
Y estoy guardado. Todo mi furor  
está en el establo, en paz vacía.  
El pasto es fresco, el río es un cristal,  
pero este gran silencio me hace daño.  
¿Por qué juraron vida a mi puñal,  
si mi alma asesinaron con engaño?

Sueño con polvo, el «¡Olé!» y el silbar,  
y del torero el acero tan querido...  
Soy un toro viejo. El prado vi brotar,  
mas hay humedad en lo que he vivido.  
Estamos presos —el hombre y el animal—,  
sin gloria de un final que nos unía.

Alba en la plaza: ¡cree en el ritual! —  
y el sol caía cuando el día moría.

---

L'arena es recorda del meu salt,  
el crit del poble que s'enfila al cel.  
Sóc veterà, cent cops he anat molt alt  
salvant el meu destí sota aquest vel.  
El flanc fosc té medalles d'argent pur,  
les meves rascades són honors.  
Sabíem tots dos en el mur segur:  
fora del redol no hi ha més valors.

Ell era el meu germà en el brogit,  
teixint la dansa amb capa i l'acer clar.  
Jo feia un pas com l'amic de la nit,  
en el moment més noble de l'anar.  
El picador que em feria la pell,  
portava de la taverna el rioja...  
Vam ser un mite. El sang de l'origen bell  
bullia en cada alenada roja.

Però el vell corn de coure ja s'ha tret.  
Ha arribat la llei, humana i gelada.  
Estic tancat. El meu furor secret  
és a l'estable, llibertat mancada.  
L'herba és verda, el riu té un flux net,  
però aquest silenci em fa ferida i dol.  
Per què em salvaven amb un gran decret,  
si em mataven l'ànima sota el sol?

Somio en pols, els «¡Olé!», el xiulet,  
i del torero l'espasa que m'estima...  
Sóc un brau vell. El prat és net i dret,  
però la humitat em toca i em deprimeix.  
Estem tancats —l'home i l'animal—,  
orfe d'un gran final que ens feia rics.

Sortia el sol a la plaça, triomfal! —  
i darrere el turó caia, sense amics.
