Ветряные мельницы

♫2105258289

Ветряные мельницы вдоль дорог в Кастилье,  
  лопасти — как руки, загребают жар.  
Эх, судьба изменница, — лестью да насилием,  
  или так, со скуки, — в путь под копья жал.  
Ветряные мельницы загребают ветер.  
  Доля семимильная, дым глиняных печей.  
Души наши — пленницы, да и кто заметит  
  три рубца, да лилию: память на плече.

Спотыкался верный конь, в кровь сбивал копыта.  
  Хрипом лай каналья, гром в литавры бей.  
Снятыми с нас мерками — гробовщик был прыток —  
  латы подгоняли сами по себе.  
Кочками да рытвинами, прочь по перепутью,  
  обреченно, медленно, — мы ползли вперёд.  
Увлекло корыто от истока к устью —  
  травы перемелены в топь густых болот.

Укулеле жалобно запищит в канаве —  
  до чертей допился, блеет свой бурлеск.  
Не того ужалил бес, но каждый в своём праве,  
  Грэя ждать у пирса, алой крови блеск.  
Паруса натянуты, нервы, как канаты,  
  ветер бьёт набатом в колокол скалы.  
Разбирали тяготы — дюжина на брата —  
  в рай попасть без блата — только за калым.

Ветряные мельницы вдоль дорог повсюду,  
  лопасти — рулетка, шарик, колесо.  
Где-то пиво пенится, в глиняной посуде,  
  где-то щи с котлеткой и вот это всё.  
Ветряные мельницы: океан безбрежный  
  жизни — незаметно время пролетит.  
Как дрова в поленнице, сложенной небрежно,  
  словно оттиск бледный, мутных строк петит.

---

Windmills in Castile

♫2105235621

Windmills line the roads that cross Castile’s plains,  
Blades like arms outstretched, gathering all the heat.  
Ah, fate, deceiver—a flattery or the chains,  
Or just out of boredom—onward, spears to meet.  
Windmills rake the breezes, sweeping through the land,  
Seven-league-long journeys, smoke from earthen stoves.  
Souls remain as captives—whoever would understand  
Three scars, a lily: memory that roves.

Steadfast horse was stumbling, hooves were bruised and red.  
Rascal’s bark was hoarse, and thunder beat the drum.  
Graveyard suits were measured—coffins for the dead—  
Armor fit itself as if the end had come.  
Ruts and muddy hillocks, onward through the maze,  
Doomed and slowly crawling, still we pressed ahead.  
Carried by the current, swept through misty haze—  
Grass was ground to pulp in swamps of tangled dread.

In the ditch, a ukulele whines its tune—  
Drunk to hell, it bleats its burlesque song.  
Not the one the devil bit, but each in their cocoon,  
Waiting at the pier for Gray to come along.  
Sails are drawn and straining, nerves are taut as rope,  
Wind tolls like a bell upon the rocky shore.  
Burdens we divided—dozens for each hope—  
Paradise is bribeless—only through the door.

Windmills line the highways, spinning everywhere,  
Blades are wheels and marbles, roulette’s turning round.  
Somewhere foams the beer in clay pots rich and rare,  
Somewhere soup and cutlet, simple joys are found.  
Windmills on the skyline: endless, boundless sea—  
Life goes by unnoticed, time slips out of sight.  
Like the logs in woodpiles, stacked so carelessly,  
Faint as pale impressions, lines in misty light.
