№7. Измена

♫2150432091

В храме идут размены, деньги-деньги-товар…  
Где теперь те джазме́ны, рассохшийся скрип гитар?  
Безобразно стареют рокеры: фильм про немой хип-хоп.  
Хищники варят брокколи, правит страной холоп.

Что начертано вилами — волнам не смыть назад.  
Мажется холст акрилами, полн наслаждений сад.  
Что ты, Емеля, мелешь? Кто роль написал тебе?  
Свою судьбу не изменишь — но изменишь судьбе.

В команде «Зенит» — замена, на поле — второй вратарь.  
Агора, или арена, — Руста проспал радар.  
Нет постоянства в мире, все ищут второе дно.  
Вторую первую милю, руби второе окно!

Аппетит подходит к десерту, подайте аперитив!  
Вагнер даёт концерты, Моцарта запретив.  
Пятый не найден угол, Лобачевский уходит в тень.  
За квадратуру круга не выпишут бюллетень.

Прости и себе измену — родине ли, жене,  
своим идеалам бренным, давно сошедшим на нет.  
Измена струн не заденет в робких твоих делах.  
В этом тщедушном теле ты сам себе патриарх.

Прости меня, ибо грешен, а значит, мы наравне.  
Скоро закат забрезжит, небо уже в огне.  
В храме идут молебны, отпевают вчерашний день.  
Хватит на завтра хлеба — и плутовских идей.

---

## No7. Cheating on Betrayal

♫2150432739

In the temple they’re trading, trading — money-for-goods on the bar…  
Where are the jazzmen fading, the cracked and splintered guitar?  
Rockers grow old obscenely — a film of mute hip-hop.  
Predators stew their broccoli, the country’s run by a prop.

What’s written with pitchfork’s marking — waves cannot wash away.  
Acrylics stain the canvas, a garden of full display.  
Brutus, what are you mumbling? Who gave you your script, my friend?  
Your fate you cannot alter — but you can twist fortune’s end.

The team prepared substitution, the keeper’s the second guy.  
There is no need for illusion, the stadium’s ready to cry.
No constancy in creation — all look for a deeper seam.  
The “second first” last mile now — hack through the second screen!

Appetite nears dessert-time — bring aperitif tonight!  
Wagner conducts in concert with Mozart banned outright.  
The fifth lost corner’s hiding, Lobachevsky fades away.  
They won’t print any ballots for squaring the circle today.

Forgive your own transgression — be it to wife or land,  
Or to those ideals you cherished, that long slipped out of hand.  
Betrayal won’t strike the harp-strings in timid, cautious trade.  
Within this puny body you’re patriarch self-made.

Forgive me — for I have stumbled, and so we’re equal then.  
Soon will the sunset glimmer, the sky’s already in flame.  
In the temple they’re offering prayers for yesterday’s dead day.  
There’ll be for tomorrow bread — and roguish schemes to play.
