№4. Воскресение

♫2136880836

Накурено в тесной комнате — яблоку негде пасть.  
От каждого — по способностям; всем — свободу и власть.

Вопросы решались истово, неделя пошла за год.  
Кому-то пора в министры, кому-то — на эшафот.

Даже вперёдсмотрящему нужен обзор назад:  
здесь всё по-настоящему, очень кривой расклад.

Крутой поворот на скорости — не до слезливых драм.  
От каждого — по способностям, каждому — по делам.

У первых не много шансов — пешки выйдут в ферзи.  
Какие уж тут романсы, когда всё вокруг в грязи.

Не испачкав перчаток — не вырыть отхожих ям.  
Шаг строевой впечатав в маршевый «Аз воздам».

Когда не хватает хлеба — не держит удар атлант.  
Башню строить до неба — та́к себе бизнес-план.

Нищетой, не скромностью, — в могилу весь мир сведут.  
От каждого — по способностям. Каждому — по суду.

Решай, принимай решение, — в скрижалях подсказка есть.  
Стрельба не на поражение, стрельба на победу здесь.

Дорога змеёй извилиста, но колея одна.  
Ну-ка попробуй вылезти из колодца со дна.

Слезами залей, заплакав, в асфальт свой угасший пыл.    
В какую ещё атаку? — дружок, здесь — глубокий тыл.

Поклоны вбивая лбами в каменный пол пещер —  
двумерное подсознание нам подарил Эшер.

Когда не хватает совести, достаточно узких шор.  
От каждого — по способностям. Каждому — приговор.

Любой мировой порядок рушится век спустя.  
Пустой исподлобья взгляд ли, сущий какой пустяк.

Иные трубя́т фанфары, иной саксофон завыл.  
Данайцы несут задаром дары, что твои волхвы.

Караул отдохнул — и вскорости по новой всё началось.  
От каждого по способностям — каждому ничего.

Взамен ни о чем не спрашивать научены мы давно.  
Из уголка с параши, — не видно неба в окно.

Но это не так и страшно. Привычка убьёт мечту.  
Зато вон стена раскрашена — яблонями в цвету.

Распирает от гордости, мир страшный, но очень мой.  
От каждого по способностям. Каждому — день седьмой.

---

## No4. The Holy Sunday

♫2136880305

The smoky haze in this small room—there’s nowhere left to fall.  
From each: according to talent; for all—freedom and all.

Decisions thrashed out earnestly, weeks slipped past as years.  
For some, a chair in ministry; for some—the scaffold nears.

Even the lookout finds himself forced to glance behind:  
Everything here is genuine—luck hardly aligned.

A hairpin turn at speed—no time for weepy shows.  
From each: according to talent; to each—what he sows.

For the first, slim odds await—the pawns become the queens.  
And who can sing romances now when all the world’s unclean?

No hands stay unbesmirched, no graves are dug in silk.  
A marching step engraves the earth with “I will repay”—like guilt.

When bread runs short, not even Atlas bears the weight.  
A tower scraping heaven’s arch?—a risky business state.

Not by humility or want—they’ll drag the world to tomb.  
From each: according to talent. To each—a measured doom.

So choose, decide your verdict—the tablets hold a clue.  
No firing just for wounding, here shots are for the coup.

The road winds like a serpent, but only one true rut.  
Just try to climb out upward, from a well’s rock-bottom gut.

You’re marching?—stamp your dying zeal down in the yielding tar.  
No courage is required here, friend—backlines stretch afar.

Heads pounding on the cavern floor with worship’s battered sound—  
Two-dimensional subconscious Escher handed down.

Where scruples fall, the blinkers fit just like a second skin.  
From each: according to talent. To each—a major hymn.

All order, worldwide, topples, its deadline always due.  
Be it a vacant, browbeaten gaze, or a trifle passing through.

Some blare the trumpets loudly, some take to catechism and chance—  
But is it punishment really—to stumble, fail, or dance?

The sentry finds his rest—and soon it all returns anew.  
From each, according to talent—each receives their due.

We’ve long been trained for nothing—expect no fair exchange.  
From a corner, where the slop bucket sits, the sky is out of range.

But this is not so frightful—habit will kill the dream.  
And anyhow, the wall is bright—with apple trees in gleam.  

Swelling up with pride, the world is monstrous—but it’s mine.  
From each: according to talent. To each—the seventh day, the holy time.
