№5. Наследство

♫2138532174

Тяжелый обряд прощания; всё, что тебе надо знать:  
почитай завещание и прекрати рыдать.  
За всё, что занято в долгую — сполна привыкай платить.  
Зыбкой лунной дорогою нить свою заплети.

Завтра свирепо скалится, дверь распахнёт ломбард.  
Пальцы скользят по пя́льцам — чёток нечеткий обряд.  
Золото правды, деньги ли — счастие не в деньгах.  
Венки заплетают в веники, век на размен в деньках.

За всё, что было сворочено, за жизнь судьбы супротив —  
по всем векселям просроченным — придется тебе платить.  
За мать, покорно молчащую, за дрожь в коленях отца,  
за жизнь в этой тёмной чаще в ожиданье конца.

За коллег, за друзей, за близких, незаданный вскользь вопрос.  
За звезды на обелисках, за жалкий соседский донос,  
за грамоты и награды, медали и ордена —  
Поздно просить пощады. Победа на всех одна.

Тяжелый обряд принятия: всё, что ты знал — забудь.  
Наследство прогнивших партий, тупиковый тернистый путь.  
Дрожащих по-над вещами, сломавших тебе судьбу —  
почитай завещание всех тех, кто лежит в гробу.

---  

## No5. The Inheritance

♫2138530134

A heavy farewell rite; all that you need to know:  
Read the will in the candlelight, let your weeping go.  
For all that you borrow long-term, you’ll learn the fee—  
Braid your thread, soft and sorrow-strong, on moon’s trembling lea.

Tomorrow snarls ferociously; kiosks will open wide.  
Your fingers glide atrociously—uncertain beads you slide.  
Gold of truth, or money—no fortune lies in coins.  
They twist wreaths though that’s funny, using brooms to pay loans.

For all that’s been shifted endlessly, for wrestling fate and life—  
Every bill, past its penalty, you’ll pay in full with strife.  
For mothers who suffer silently, for trembling in fathers’ knees,  
For life in this forest, anxiously, expecting the end with unease.

For colleagues, and kin, and friendships, for questions you never asked,  
For stars that adorn the stone crypts, for neighbor’s petty mask,  
For honors and medals, distinctions, all ribbons and orders won—  
It’s late for seeking remission. One victory exists for everyone.

A burdensome rite of admission: forget all you ever knew.  
Inheritance—rotten commissions, a path that’s thorny and through.  
Of those, above relics trembling, whose hand once twisted your fate—  
Read the will, in silence assembling, of all those in coffin state.

