Преступления и наказания

♫2105258277

Зло наказаний чуждо, преступлений хватит на всех.  
Заупокойными службами суд отпевает срока́.  
Раскаялся? — Ну и славно. Страданья твой скрасят век.  
Палач тут всегда за главного, и его не дрожит рука.  
Наш кодекс — реестр содеянного: прецедентам — вердикт — закон.  
Было бы самонадеянно самим вершить правосуд.  
В каждом конкретном случае поставлено всё на кон,  
шары навалены в кучу и вон уж святых несут.

Голосованьем сглажен некогерентный свет:  
не до нюансов — важно сойтись на чем-то одном.  
Шпаргалки помогут вряд ли — даст ли списать сосед?  
В сто первом вопросе кряду ответ похерен крестом.  
Как удержать поводья, когда понёс коренной? —  
Запрягай в половодье, в вёдро не слезь с печи.  
Дальше не ехать тише — тпру, погоди, постой.  
Слышишь, природа дышит? — Давай и мы помолчим.

В жизни по предписанию не случиться войне.  
Преступление и наказание, недеяние и покой.  
За шаг по линейке — премия. Шаг на месте — вдвойне.  
Покорных заветов племя топчется на убой.  
Прутом очерчен на гравии наш тесный келейный круг.  
Из круга не выйдет праведник, не прыгнет за флагом волк.  
Непоколебима истина, когда и Платон — не друг.  
Из лёгких попробуй выстонать зло ушедших эпох.

---

Crime and Punishment

♫2105235636

Evil’s alien to punishment, crimes enough for all.  
Court chants funeral services for sentences to fall.  
Repented?—Well, that’s splendid. Suffering will grace your age.  
The executioner’s in charge here, his hand steady on the stage.

Our code—a registry of deeds done: precedents—verdict—law.  
It would be presumptuous to judge ourselves, a fatal flaw.  
In every specific instance, all is staked anew,  
Balls piled in a heap, and lo, the saints they now pursue.

By voting, incoherent light is smoothed away:  
No time for nuance—important to agree on something, hey.  
Cheat sheets will hardly help you—will neighbors share their lore?  
In the hundred-first question straight, the answer’s crossed, no more.

How to hold the reins when the shaft horse bolts and flies?—  
Harness in the flood, in fair weather don’t leave the stove, be wise.  
Further, don’t go slower—whoa, wait, stand still.  
Hear nature breathing?—Let’s keep quiet, we will.

In life by prescription, war won’t come to pass.  
Crime and punishment, inaction and repose en masse.  
For each step by the ruler—a bonus. Step in place—double pay.  
The tribe of meek commandments tramples to the slaughter’s way.

Our tight monastic circle’s drawn with a rod on gravel ground.  
No righteous one will leave the circle, no wolf will leap flag-bound.  
Truth’s unshakeable when even Plato’s not a friend.  
Try to groan from your lungs the evil of epochs’ end.
