Антипечатное

♫2105258301

Хватит печатать книги, уничтожать леса,  
  нет никакой интриги в ста́ романах из ста́.  
Сюжеты давно закрыты, выписаны дотла.  
  Старухе — своё корыто, ведьмам — своя метла.  
Иссякли живые темы, рифм свежих больше нет.  
  Десять вирусных мемов полезнее, чем сонет.  
Хватит печатать книги: ценнее печатать шаг.  
  Чтоб выступить в высшей лиге, нужно выбросить шлак.

Хватит кормить культурку, лежалый этот товар:  
  ровным слоем окурки укрывают здесь тротуар.  
Виолончель ли, скрипка, хриплый простуженный альт —  
  не допустить ошибку, шваброй дра́я асфальт.  
Зачем вообще аккорды, когда есть и марш, и гимн?  
  Сыграно всё до коды, стихли во тьме шаги.  
Хватит кормить культурку, в колодец вливать бабло.  
  Забыли же все мазурку — королеву чужих балов.

Хватит мечтать и думать, в век щита и меча.  
  Фрак шутовским костюмом скрывает дряблость плеча.  
Оправ роговы́е панцири, пенсне роковы́х надежд.  
  Кто до конечной станции? — Передаём за проезд!  
Чеканить слова пудовые — достойно иных времён.  
  Тихо рыдают вдовы над плитами без имён.  
Хватит мечтать и думать, придумано всё до нас.  
  Скалится вслед фортуна, оркестры играют вальс.

Хватит терзать бумагу: стерпит не всё она.  
  Клякса — не знак отваги, отточие — не финал.  
Не знаю, что там с Эзопом, но иносказаний чернь —  
  засуньте обратно в сопло своих показных речей.  
Давно отучившись верить, разучимся скоро врать,  
  как сивый красивый мерин, во имя всего добра.  
Хватит терзать бумагу слов как сургуч печать.  
  Заткнись уже, всем на благо. Наступила пора молчать.

---

Publishing Sore

♫2105235642

Stop printing books, razing trees to the ground,  
No intrigue is found in old tales that abound.  
Plots long since concluded, dissected and bare—  
Old hags keep their troughs, witches cling to their care.  
Exhausted live themes, no fresh rhymes to be spun:  
Ten viral memes outshine a sonnet undone.  
Stop printing these books—better print your own stride.  
To join the top league, cast the slag from your pride.

Stop feeding culture, that stale, rotting ware—  
Cigarette butts blanket the sidewalks out there.  
Cello or violin, hoarse altos’ weak cry,  
Swab asphalt with mops, lest mistakes multiply.  
Why strum chords at all when marches and hymns reign?  
All played to the coda, steps fade in night’s chain.  
Stop funding this culture, well-draining your gold.  
The waltz is forgotten—queen of balls left cold.

Stop dreams and deep thinking in shields-and-swords’ age.  
Jester’s frayed costume hides sagged shoulders of a sage.  
Horned armor of reason, fate’s spectacled gaze—  
“Who rides to the last stop?” —Pass fares through the haze.  
To mint weighty words suits eras long gone.  
Widows weep softly where nameless stones dawn.  
Stop dreams and deep thinking—all thought’s been outsped.  
Fortune grins behind us; waltzes play for the dead.

Stop torturing paper—it won’t bear all lies.  
A blot’s not courage’s badge; sharp quills don’t suffice.  
Who cares now for Aesop? Allegories’ crude throng—  
Shove back through the nozzle of speeches so long.  
Unlearned to believe, soon we’ll unlearn deceit,  
Like a gray gelding’s virtue, for good’s stale retreat.  
Stop mangling paper with words sealed in wax.  
Shut up for our sake—it’s time to relax.
