№9. Свидетельство

♫2150549340

Доносы становятся нормой — всплеск шума из ничего,  
трагедией Цимбелина эстетов не удивить.  
Любым содержаниям форма кладёт печать на чело,  
кому — Голиаф былинный, кому — тщедушный Давид.

Обществом порицаем облыжный слепой навет.  
Пусть разберётся староста: два слова, да чёрный ствол.  
Не каждого полицая карьера выводит в свет,  
но можно дожить до старости лучше, чем большинство.

В несодранной слов коросте — гной вековых обид.  
Играем на поражение — сделаны ставки, стоп.  
Разум и чувства О́стин — что так внутри болит?  
Гордость как предубеждение: каждой версте — свой столб.

Донос по большому счёту — почти должностной доклад,  
с совестью всё в порядке, всякий достоен труд.  
В тени не нюхнуть почёта, зато достойный оклад,  
риза по разнорядке, — обед шестьдесят минут.

История лжесвидетельств полна́ чередою правд  
сюжет любого романа трактовки плетёт в клубок.  
А помнишь, в далёком детстве, с разбегу бросались вплавь,  
до самого океана — и каждый был одинок.

---

## No9. Testimony

♫2150548647

Informing’s now the norm—each empty noise a rising swell,  
Cymbeline’s tragic drama can’t surprise the arts’ elite.  
Whatever shapes content, its form imprints an endless spell:  
For some—a saga’s Goliath, for some—a frail David, beat.

Society condemns the slander—blind, yet boldly cast.  
Let elders sort it out: two words, then barrels in the night.  
Not every cop’s promotion hauls him upward fast,  
Yet some outlive their years far better than the common plight.

On words’ unstripped crust—pus of old offense and spite.  
We play to lose the game—our bets are in, declare.  
What pains inside Austen’s thoughts—what aches beyond her sight?  
Pride, like old prejudice: each mile—its milestone there.

An informant’s note—by law, it’s almost just a work report,  
The conscience is unshaken, and every toil is due.  
In shadows, honor’s lacking, but the salary’s in court,  
The robe assigned by schedule—lunch sixty minutes too.

The tales of false betrayers bear true lines within their crowd;  
Each novel’s plot entangles what the storytellers show.  
Remember—childhood distant—how we’d rush into the cloud,  
To reach the boundless ocean—where everyone swam alone.
