Месть

♫2105258295

Месть — оружие слабых, мысли задним числом,  
  взмах кулаком на лестнице, дали весло — табань!  
Взвесью осядет лава, пепел ветром снесло.  
  Наместник, или наместница, — дело наше — табак.  
Месть — оправданье труса, когда-нибудь взыщем долг.  
  Все по счетам заплатят, втри́дорога процент.  
Мальчик — пока безусый — знает в зубрёжке толк.  
  Коновалы в шикарных платьях учатся на Авиценн.

Месть — никогда не спо́ра, некуда нам спешить.  
  Карикатура или икона — один предрешен исход.  
Запрёмся на все запоры, и станем свой суд вершить,  
  у местных благих канонов — закрытый исходный код.  
Заповеди зачитаны, но беллетристика — не закон.  
  Кодекс врагу не писан, а значит и нам — трын-трава.  
Нас обыграли читеры — ставим вдвойне на ко́н.  
  Ныне, вовеки, присно — рубль пойдет за два.

Месть никому не выгодна, но это побочный эффект.  
  Сперва отыграем ставку — потом зачитаем права.  
Награда найдет не выродка, — героя аутодафе.  
  Слону не докажет шавка, кто прав, а кто — виноват.  
Варенье из волчьей ягоды — вот, что такое месть.  
  Томленье врага на нарах, петляет конец пути.  
Хуссейна сыграет Магда, Бен Ладена — Мэй Уэст.  
  Настигнет неверных кара, готовых позор простить.

Месть — на ней всё и зи́ждется. Фундамент, цемент, песок.  
  Тринадцать чертей на выданье — все на игле сидят.  
Позора покорства подвижница, смиренья сбродивший сок,  
  с корнем из книги выдраны страницы на самосад.  
Месть не приходит к праведникам, в шортах и босиком,  
  носит сюртук отглаженный, гетры, трость и пенсне.  
Всегда без часов, как в праздники. Каждый, кто с ней знаком —  
  знает: она подскажет кого убивать во сне. 

---

The Vengeance

♫2105235618

Vengeance—weapon of the weak, thoughts in hindsight’s glow,  
A fist swung on the staircase, given an oar—backwater row!  
Lava settles as suspension, ash blown by the wind.  
Viceroy, male or female,—our business is threshed in the grind.

Vengeance—coward’s justification, someday we’ll collect the debt.  
All will pay their dues, with interest tripled, you can bet.  
A boy—still beardless—knows the art of cramming well.  
Quacks in fancy dresses learn to be Avicennas, they tell.

Vengeance—never hasty, we’ve got no need to rush.  
Caricature or icon—one outcome’s set to crush.  
We’ll lock all bolts and latches, and hold our own court’s sway,  
Local benign canons—have closed source code today.

Commandments have been read, but fiction’s not the law.  
No code applies to foes, so we care not a straw.  
Cheaters beat us once—we’ll double down our stake.  
Now and ever, always—two rubles for one we’ll take.

Vengeance profits no one, but that’s a side effect.  
First, we’ll play our hand—then read rights, we’ll elect.  
The prize won’t find the bastard,—auto-da-fé is a hero’s slot.  
An elephant won’t heed a mongrel on who’s right or who’s not.

Jam made from nightshade berries—that’s what vengeance is.  
Enemy’s torment in jail cells, the path’s end twists and fizz.  
Magda will play Hussein, Mae West—Bin Laden’s part.  
Punishment will catch the infidels, ready to forgive shame’s start.

Vengeance—it’s the foundation. Cement, sand, and stone.  
Thirteen devils up for grabs—all hooked on needle’s tone.  
Humiliation’s submission devotee, humility’s fermented juice,  
Pages torn from books by roots for homemade tobacco’s use.

Vengeance doesn’t come to the righteous, in shorts and barefoot style,  
It wears a pressed frock coat, spats, cane, and pince-nez’s guile.  
Always without a watch, as if on holidays. All who know her face—  
Know: she’ll whisper who to kill in dreams, leaving no trace.
