Идеалы

♫2105258286

Твои идеалы сгнили, мой интеллигентный друг.  
От клятв на крови́ — ванилью разит на версту вокруг.  
Распределенье в силе, воздастся всё по чинам:  
по заповедям не жили — не стоит и начинать.  
Таков мировой порядок, устройство любых общин.  
Семь поколений кряду — власть глубоких морщин.  
Найдёт героя награда, догонит уже в гробу.  
Мамаша, рыдать не надо. Ваш третий в пятом ряду.

Твои идеалы сгнили, ты дряхл, и ты мягкоте́л.  
Энеи́ду сжигать Вергилий так и не захотел.  
На рынке вакансий обилие, хоть горстями дари, —  
Публия продавили Данте в поводыри.  
История нас не учит, розгами в рост не бьёт.  
Под партой ножками су́чит великовозрастный идиот.  
Племя голодное сучье — балансом не дорожит.  
Камень в каждую кучу старается доложить. 

Твои идеалы сгнили, ты пахнешь, как спи́тый чай.  
Вокруг на многие мили безмолвно царит печаль.  
Тебя никогда не били, голову очертя,  
черти в рожок трубили, — и ты подпевал чертям.  
Твою распустили партию, но ты твёрдо платишь взнос.  
Керенский в женском платье — на Родзянку строчит донос.  
Пойми уже, мы не братья, а значит — нет старшинства.  
Это не демократия, но — террор большинства.

Твои идеалы сгнили. За ними — тебе пора б.  
Не выучив суахили, не поймешь что такое — раб.   
Волки не лунам выли, избавившись от оков,  
но мы давно позабыли, как приручать волков.  
Диктат аксиом и догмы — такой нам достался век.  
Не выходи из до́ма, не совершай побег.

Не выходи из комнаты, пройдет без тебя парад.

Твои идеалы в коме.  
Отключай уже аппарат.

---

The Ideals

♫2105235645

Your ideals have rotted, my dear cultured friend.  
From blood-bound oaths—the air around reeks of vanilla’s end.  
Power’s distribution, all shall be paid by rank:  
We didn’t live by commandments—no need to start the plank.  
Such is the world’s arrangement, the structure of all kin.  
Seven generations in a row—power’s the mark of skin.  
The hero finds his reward, it’ll chase him to his tomb.  
Mother, don’t cry. Your boy is two-hundred-fortieth to be buried soon.

Your ideals have rotted, you’re frail and soft as clay.  
Virgil never burned the Aeneid, not once did he dismay.  
The job market’s bursting—your share of gold’s to slide—  
Publius crushed Dante, and Dante made him a guide.  
History’s no teacher, with lashes it does not beat.  
Under desks, the big fool’s feet keep shuffling with deceit.  
A hungry, vile pack of dogs doesn’t care for balance at all.  
Each stone is shoved in the pile, a stone in every hall.

Your ideals have rotted, you smell like used-up tea.  
Around for miles in silence, sorrow reigns so free.  
No one ever struck you, you never rushed in vain,  
Demons blew their horns, and you sang along in pain.  
Your party’s been disbanded, but you still pay your dues.  
No boxer ain’t lay twice, nor friend writes his news.  
Let’s see, we are not brothers, so there’s no need for pride.  
This is not democracy, but majority’s cruel stride.

Your ideals have rotted. It’s time for you to go.  
Without learning Swahili, a slave you’ll never know.  
Wolves don’t howl at the moon after they’ve broken their chains,  
But we’ve long forgotten how to tame wolves’ wild pains.  
A doctrine of axioms and dogma—such is our time’s face.  
Stay inside your house, don’t dare to run or race.

Don’t step outside your room, your pass wins a dice’s toss.

Your ideals are comatose,  
Time to turn the machine off, I suppose.
