№2. Идол

♫2136880833

Мёртвая деревня, двадцать изб над лугом.  
Выстроены в ряд, но время смяло их полукругом.  
Стоят не шелохнувшись, распряженным цугом —  
  в землю вросшие по брови наличников.  
В полдень ни шороха под небом белым.  
Застывший воздух на пределе одного децибела.  
Брюхо колеи пылится дебело, —  
  страшно поднести спичку.

Речитатив нынче снова в моде,  
мы научились строить всё, что неподвластно природе.  
Разнорядка — по юродивому в каждом приходе,  
  просто ради разнообразия.  
Липнет к рукавицам разведённая глина,  
булыжники свалены по углам овина,  
фундамент как трапеция в форме клина —  
  поклонам в противофазе.

Рифы ли, мель — ты мели, Емеля,  
я вижу свободу в игольном ушке тоннеля,  
несите ужин: Страстная неделя  
  подошла к завершению.  
Нам не обещали ни хлеба, ни просмотров,  
мы сами гоним спирт на разрыв аорты,  
дожить до седин — разновидность большого спорта —  
  пора принять решение.

Не слыхать к заутрене ни единого шага.  
Дьяк хлещет кагор, выгрызает кусками флягу —  
не разобрать по вкусу, что это за брага,  
  да и какая разница.  
Записано во благо, но потеряны страницы,  
остались лишь кафизмы к святой седмице —  
где-то под окладом чей-то лик пылится,  
  осоловело скалится.

Выписан заботливо Рублёвым или Греком,  
или просто проходившим мимо божьим человеком,  
на тяжёлый глаз приопущено веко,  
  второй — заплыл от грязи.  
Ему поклонялись старые и младые,  
да выцвели краски от времени и гордыни,  
паутина морщин, мочало бороды и  
  плесени проказа.

Не портрет, но скорее набросок.  
образу не хватает огонька папиросы,  
кистень, зажатый в кулаке для решения вопросов  
  о сотворении мира.  
Не портрет, шарж за полтинник на Арбате.  
Без души и мастерства — и с какой вообще стати.  
В рубище истлело когда-то богатое платье  
  позабытого кумира.

  Позабытого кумира.  
  Нарисованного кумира.

А вот не нужно было портить доски маслом,
вам же говорили, да всё — напрасно,
Золотой телец в пляс пустился вальсом
  и всё пошло прахом.
Золотой кумир постарел и сморщился,
пересох ручей, да вырубили рощицу,
вода прольётся в землю, хлеб — раскрошится.

  А мы идём на плаху.

---

## No2. The Idol

♫2136880302

A deadened village—twenty huts above the lea—
Once ranked in rows. But time has bent their symmetry.
They stand, unmoving, like a scorched and scattered team—
Buried to their brows, the windows stare supreme.
At noon not even whispers, under whitened skies,
The air is frozen—holding on a decibel’s disguise.
Dust mantles the plow’s paunch, dull as bone—
I dare not raise a match alone.

Recitatives are back in style nowadays,
We’ve learned to build what nature can’t, in modern ways.
The edict’s like a madman at each parish stage—
Just for a modicum of change.
Clay sticks and stains my mittens’ broken seam,
Stones in the granary are heaped in every corner’s scheme,
The foundation’s wedge—a bowed trapezium
That bows in counter-beam.

Sands or shoals—keep grinding, Moses,
I glimpse freedom in a tunnel’s tiny needle’s sinner.
Bring supper: Passion Week next to tomorrow closes—
And hunger grows much keener.
No promises of bread or glory ever linger,
We distill the spirits with a trembling finger;
To reach old age’s doorstep not becoming a wrinkled minger—
Decisions grow much meaner.

For matins, not a single step resounds.
The clerk downs Cahors, his teeth gnaw on the flask he found—
What’s in this blend? The flavor's never sound—
But does it even matter?
It’s written for the good, yet pages lost or scattered,
Left only are the psalms set for the holy week’s matter—
While, under plated frames, a face long battered
Grins dully in the clatter.

Inscribed with care by Rublev, or the Greek, perhaps,
Or painted by a vagrant soul who simply wandered past,
One eye dwells heavy—lately shut beneath its crust,
The other—sealed by dust.
Once, both young and old would bow before his stare,
But colors bled with time and pride’s relentless glare,
Cobwebs in wrinkles, and beards long spare—
Mildew’s leprous snare.

Not portrait—rather, sketch; the brows lack fire of cigarettes,
A mace clutched tight, for settling debts
Since the world’s first offsets.
Not portrait, but a caricature for coins at Arbat stalls;
Both soulless and unskilled—but who recalls?
The raiment, once resplendent, now in rags and falls
From a forgotten idol’s halls.

A forgotten idol’s trace—
A drawn, forgotten idol’s face.

You should not have oiled the boards, they told you twice,
But still—all wasted advice.
The golden calf, whirling, spins his waltz’s vice—
And ashes claim the prize, as it’s been forever told.

The golden idol’s hunched and wizened,
The stream’s dried up; the grove is prisoned.
Water fell to earth, and bread—crumbed, flattened,
And all is past and saddened.

Now, we mount the scaffold.
